# Django example project - djangoexample folder.

This directory was originally generated automatically by django when we initialized our project, and contains all the python code which configures our project itself. Django creates a 'skeleton' within it for us, but we wil definitely be editing it.

## Directory of files
 * `__init__.py`: This is a special blank file generated by django - we won't go into details but it's needed so that Python treats the containing folder (`djangoexample`) as something called a `module` - a collection of related sets of code files that can be treated as a single unit.
 * `asgi.py`: This file is generated by django, and describes how our project will connect to the network and listen for connections from clients. We won't need to edit it and can forget that it's there :-)
 * `settings.py`: This file is generated by django when we initialze the project, with a useful set of defaults - it describes all the settings and configuration of django for our project. We edited this file once we generated our `pages` app to tell django that that app forms part of this project.
 * `urls.py`: This describes how the application should respond to requests for different urls. Django generates a 'skeleton' of it for us when we initialize the project. We edited this once we generated our `pages` app, to tell django to include all the urls from `pages/urls.py` in this project.
 * `wsgi.py`: Like `asgi.py`, this file is generated by django and concerns the way our project connects to the internet. We won't need to edit it, and can just forget about it for now!