# Django example project - pages folder.

 This directory was generated by django when we created our "pages" application, and contains all the python code for our application. Django automatically creates a skeleton structure for our application, which we then add to.

 ## Directory of files
  * `migrations/` folder - Django creates this for us, it's where we'd create 'migrations' - special python files that manage the structure of our database for us, and that we'd use for adding and removing tables and fields. However, we're not going to use a database in this project so we can ignore it for now.
  * `__init__.py`. As we saw in the `djangoexample` project folder, this is a special blank file generated by django - we won't go into details but it's needed so that Python treats the containing folder (`pages`) as something called a `module` - a collection of related sets of code files that can be treated as a single unit.
  * `admin.py`. Django automatically includes 'administration' pages for every app, where you can do things like manage user accounts, if you so wish - django generates this file so that you can configure and extend that functionality. In our case, we're not going to be using it, so we can safely ignore this file.
  * `apps.py`. This contains the overall configuration for our app, it's generated by Django, but we might need to edit it later.
  * `models.py`. The python side of our app is divided into two types of objects - _models_, which contain the data of our app, and _views_, which control how they're displayed on the page. In this file we'll add our models - Django helpfully creates a skeleton for it.
  * `tests.py`. Often when you're writing a complicated application, you need to make sure that you don't accidentally break anything when you make a change. One helpful technique for doing this is to write automated tests which describe the behaviour you expect from your application, and will warn you if you've broken anything before you deploy it and it ends up in front of your users. Django creates this skeleton file for these sorts of tests, but in our case we'll be ignoring it, as we're only going to be building a very simple application.
  * `views.py`. As above, our django app contains two types of python objects, _models_ and _views_. This is where we'll write our _views_, which define how the application renders a specific page.
